{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Brent Gaither Kevin Portland\
\
1. The amino acid sequences line up the same with with a regular global alignment and with the Hydrophobicity matrix used. Both of the alignment methods matched them without gaps because gaps in this case would be worse than unmatched alignments. With PAM250 there is a higher penalty for matching some amino acids with others, high enough to be worse than adding gaps and therefore gaps are created. One amino acid matched up but the gaps show the need for a better alignment. The BLOSUM62 matrix placed in one gap and aligned one amino acid. This matrix is allowed for only 1 gap unlike the PAM1 matrix that penalizes heavily for some combinations. The high penalty creates 3 gaps which is much different than the hydrophobicity matrix. (A gap penalty of -1 was used for all of these)\
2. BLOSUM 250 is generally better at determining differences between closely related sequences and we saw that there is only a few gaps created. This makes sense for a similar sequence because having a mismatch is more likely than totally missing an amino acid. The two sequences were similar length and matched well for most part (75%).  This matched the ident score on BLAST. }